Title: My current take on Young Wives 
Summary: I started re-reading Young Wives by Olivia Goldsmith and here are a few thoughts I had! :)
Image: Blog-post1.png

*Young Wives* by Olivia Goldsmith follows three women that got married in their early twenties and traces the unraveling of their marriages.  I recall the first time I picked up this book at fifteen. I was too enraged to complete it. I remember thinking to myself *“why were these women so desperate for male validation?”* and *“it’s just a man get over it.”* I distinctly recall feeling embarrassed by the lengths each woman went to in order to keep her husband's attention: waking up before her husband to put on makeup so he never saw her bare face, going on morning walks before dawn to stay in shape, shrinking her personality in the hope that her husband would continue to love her. Upon my initial reading, the story line that enraged me the most was Angela’s. She was a successful lawyer reduced to an insecure puddle after her husband, who she seemed to deem perfect, cheated on her. Her constant praise of him, coupled with the depth of her devastation after discovering his affair, was the point at which I decided I had had enough. I closed the book and left it on my bookshelf. 

Four years later, during my first summer home since college had started I found myself with the free time to read again. I looked around my room woefully disappointed that all I had seemed to collect over the years were YA books I had completed, and an assortment of textbooks that were in piles waiting to be donated. While digging through my bookshelves I stumbled across Young Wives, the only book in my room I hadn’t finished. With nothing better to do with my time I decided to give the book a second chance. This time, instead of reacting with the same sense of disgust and revolt for the women’s behavior, I found myself pitying them. What I once viewed as simple desperation for male validation I now perceive as the very basic human desire to be loved. I read on in horror as each of these women attempted desperately to cling on to love, and much to my own despair, I found myself empathizing with them. 

What I know now, and what I failed to understand at fifteen, is that there is nothing shameful about wanting to be loved. In fact, people often find themselves in deeply undignified situations in pursuit of it. While I don't yet understand romantic love, I understand platonic love better than almost anything else. We spend most of our lives chasing one form of love or another, whether we like to admit it or not. We spend our childhoods chasing friendship, contorting ourselves to fit into different friend groups in the hope of being accepted, of having others desire our presence. Then, we spend our adolescence chasing romantic love, or perhaps not love, but strong infatuation. Regardless of what you would like to label it, we pursue it with a feverish urgency. We reshape ourselves once again: listening to the music our crushes like, watching their favorite movies and shows so we have something to talk about, hoping they'll notice us and reciprocate our feelings. As we grow older, love begins to carry greater weight. We are expected to find partners with whom we will share our lives. Romantic love is the form of love our society seems to deem the most important; countless books, films, and songs have been devoted to it. So, while I stand by the fact that one should never lose themselves in the pursuit of love, who am I to judge when their world comes undone after losing it? If anything, revisiting Young Wives has taught me that the tragedy was never that these women wanted to be loved—it was that, somewhere along the way, they believed they needed to change who they were in order to be loved. 